README.md, before:

# Molecule Visualizer

### Package Requirements:
-----------
 - Windows 10 or higher
 - Python 3.7+ or PyCharm 2019+
 - [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual)
 - [RDKit](https://www.rdkit.org/docs/index.html) 
 - [Open-Source PyMOL](https://pymolwiki.org/index.php/Windows_Install)
 - [ChEMBL webresource client](https://chembl.gitbook.io/chembl-interface-documentation/web-services)
 - [Biopython](https://biopython.org/)
 
 These modules were installed under a conda environment: RDKit, Open-Source PyMOL, and Biopython. 
 'pip install' was used to install ChEMBL webresource client.

### How to Run:
-----------
To run the software workflow under interactive mode, open the Command Prompt.

Before running the demonstration, install all the necessary modules(RDKit, PyMol and Biopython) through creating an anaconda environment through command prompt `conda create --name myenv`  where `myenv` is to be replaced by your own environment name. Use ` pip install chembl_webresource_client` to install ChEMBL module.

Now enter `cd -folder-name-\molecular_visualiser` to navigate to the folder of the directory where the project has been placed in.  

Then type `activate myenv` to open the conda environment.

Now enter `python` to open the Python shell. 

Now type the following code:

```python
>>> from protein import Protein
>>> from chem_mol import ChemicalMolecule
```

### Demonstration Workflow:
-----------
The following will demonstrate how the workflow will retrieve molecular data online and convert to be visualised as a 3D object on PyMol simulatenously. 

```python
# Get the crystal structure of the main COVID-19 protease
>>> protease = Protein(pdbid='6LU7')
Downloading PDB structure '6LU7'...
A protein with an ID matching 6LU7 was found and saved in C:\folder-name\molecular_visualiser\data\6lu7.cif
>>>protease.show()
Processing protein model for 6LU7 to PyMol
 ExecutiveLoad-Detail: Detected mmCIF
'6LU7'
>>>  Detected OpenGL version 4.6. Shaders available.
 Detected GLSL version 4.60.
 License Expiry date: 01-jun-2021
```
<img width="960" alt="figure1" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53241776/100229644-70893f80-2f89-11eb-8f48-d5260a566abb.png">

Figure 1: The 3D structure of 6LU7.

```python
# Get the 3D structure of lopinavir
>>> lopinavir = ChemicalMolecule(chemblid='CHEMBL729')
A ChEMBL matching CHEMBL729 was found and saved in C:\Users\bened\Desktop\molecular_visualiser\data\CHEMBL729.mol
>>>lopinavir.show()     
Processing molecule model for CHEMBL729 to PyMol
'CHEMBL729'
```
<img width="960" alt="figure 2" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53241776/100229676-7c750180-2f89-11eb-8720-5a926934d380.png">

Figure 2: The 3D structure of lopinavir. Added simulatenously to PyMol.

<img width="362" alt="figure 3" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53241776/100230106-20f74380-2f8a-11eb-9d2a-d88b846fa55f.png">

Figure 3: PyMol's camera rotated showing both molecules on the same window.

Note that in order to end the software workflow, type `exit()` in the Python shell. This also allows the PyMol window to be closed.

Commit message:

Updated to show software architecture
A diagram that displays how data is retrieved from the online databases then visualized on PyMOL via Python APIs and REPL

README.md, after:

# Molecule Visualizer

### Package Requirements:
-----------
 - Windows 10 or higher
 - Python 3.7+ or PyCharm 2019+
 - [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual)
 - [RDKit](https://www.rdkit.org/docs/index.html) 
 - [Open-Source PyMOL](https://pymolwiki.org/index.php/Windows_Install)
 - [ChEMBL webresource client](https://chembl.gitbook.io/chembl-interface-documentation/web-services)
 - [Biopython](https://biopython.org/)
 
 These modules were installed under a conda environment: RDKit, Open-Source PyMOL, and Biopython. 
 'pip install' was used to install ChEMBL webresource client.
 
### Architecure:
-----------
The diagram below shows an overview of the software workflow system:

![Molecule Visualiser architecture](/architecture.png)
Figure 1: Molecule Visualizer architecture. 

### How to Run:
-----------
To run the software workflow under interactive mode, open the Command Prompt.

Before running the demonstration, install all the necessary modules(RDKit, PyMol and Biopython) through creating an anaconda environment through command prompt `conda create --name myenv`  where `myenv` is to be replaced by your own environment name. Use ` pip install chembl_webresource_client` to install ChEMBL module.

Now enter `cd -folder-name-\molecular_visualiser` to navigate to the folder of the directory where the project has been placed in.  

Then type `activate myenv` to open the conda environment.

Now enter `python` to open the Python shell. 

Now type the following code:

```python
>>> from protein import Protein
>>> from chem_mol import ChemicalMolecule
```

### Demonstration Workflow:
-----------
The following will demonstrate how the workflow will retrieve molecular data online and convert to be visualised as a 3D object on PyMol simulatenously. 

```python
# Get the crystal structure of the main COVID-19 protease
>>> protease = Protein(pdbid='6LU7')
Downloading PDB structure '6LU7'...
A protein with an ID matching 6LU7 was found and saved in C:\folder-name\molecular_visualiser\data\6lu7.cif
>>>protease.show()
Processing protein model for 6LU7 to PyMol
 ExecutiveLoad-Detail: Detected mmCIF
'6LU7'
>>>  Detected OpenGL version 4.6. Shaders available.
 Detected GLSL version 4.60.
 License Expiry date: 01-jun-2021
```
<img width="960" alt="figure1" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53241776/100229644-70893f80-2f89-11eb-8f48-d5260a566abb.png">

Figure 2: The 3D structure of 6LU7.

```python
# Get the 3D structure of lopinavir
>>> lopinavir = ChemicalMolecule(chemblid='CHEMBL729')
A ChEMBL matching CHEMBL729 was found and saved in C:\Users\bened\Desktop\molecular_visualiser\data\CHEMBL729.mol
>>>lopinavir.show()     
Processing molecule model for CHEMBL729 to PyMol
'CHEMBL729'
```
<img width="960" alt="figure 2" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53241776/100229676-7c750180-2f89-11eb-8720-5a926934d380.png">

Figure 3: The 3D structure of lopinavir. Added simulatenously to PyMol.

<img width="362" alt="figure 3" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53241776/100230106-20f74380-2f8a-11eb-9d2a-d88b846fa55f.png">

Figure 4: PyMol's camera rotated showing both molecules on the same window.

Note that in order to end the software workflow, type `exit()` in the Python shell. This also allows the PyMol window to be closed.
